[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on Cosmic Disclosure,
we're with Richard Doty, a
retired special agent who
served in the Air Force Office
of Special Investigations.
Richard was intimately
involved with UFO/ET-related
intelligence.
Today, we're talking
about a UFO landing
at a remote satellite
tracking station.
Richard, welcome to the show.
>>RICHARD C. DOTY:
Good to be here, Emery.
Thank you.
>>EMERY: There's a
highly isolated island
with a French satellite
tracking station on it.
What UFO-related incident
took place on this island?
>>DOTY: Well, the island
is called Kerguelen Island.
It's the most remote island,
inhabited island in the world.
It's in the South Indian Ocean.
It's about 2,700 miles
southwest of Perth, Australia,
very isolated.
>>EMERY: How remote is this?
>>DOTY: Extremely remote.
There's only one
way to this island.
It's by a ship that travels
from a southern point of South
Africa to the island.
It takes 9 days to get there.
And it's a French-owned island.
It has a satellite
tracking station
run by the French military.
But there's also a
group of scientists that
are on that island year-round.
So the total population of
that island at any given time
is about 150 people.
>>EMERY: What happened
on November 10, 1981?
>>DOTY: On November
10, 1981, Pine Gap
which is a joint American
and Australian tracking
station near Alice
Springs, Australia
identified on radar a number
of unidentified flying objects
flying up from Antarctica.
Now, immediately, the Australian
Air Force was notified of this
and they launched some
Mirage III fighter jets.
Back in those days, Australians
flew French-made fighter jets.
And these fighter Jets went
out to intercept these UFOs.
But these UFOs are flying
at such random altitudes
such as 60,000 feet and then
they would drop to 20,000 feet,
go all the way up
to 100,000 feet
and then drop all the
way down to 6,000 feet.
The Mirage jets just couldn't
keep up with these UFOs.
>>EMERY: They are
not capable of that.
>>DOTY: They're not capable
of flying at that altitude
or in that type of manner.
The Mirage jets
quickly ran out of fuel
and had to return to the base.
But some of these
UFOs were still
being tracked by Pine Gap.
Some flew south towards
Antarctica and disappeared.
Some flew west, some flew north.
One particular
one that flew west
landed in the ocean
south of Perth.
A fishing ship located
in that area sent
out a mayday, a distress
call to the Australian Coast
Guard saying some kind
of object had just
landed in the ocean
in front of him
and it was causing such
havoc with the water
that it was almost
capsizing this fishing ship.
So they asked for help.
But it was about 200
miles south of Perth,
so no Australian Coast
Guard ship was in the area.
But the captain of this
ship kept calling mayday
over and over and over again.
They asked for any other
assistance in the area.
Well, lo and behold, we had
some US Navy ships in the area
on classified operations
or classified missions.
And one of the ships went to
assist this fishing vessel.
But before it could
get there, this craft
had come out of
the water and flew
in a south-westerly direction.
About 20 hours later,
scientists on Kerguelen Island
sent out a distress call to
Perth asking for assistance
because a UFO has just landed
in the bay of this community.
It was on the
surface of the water,
according to the reports, and
it didn't go under the water,
it was just on the
surface of the water.
So the scientists on
the island needed help.
They didn't know
how to handle it.
All their support
came from Australia.
If there was any kind
of medical emergency,
it would come from Australia,
so they immediately
asked the Australian Coast
Guard for assistance.
Well, it's 2,700
miles from Perth,
the nearest port to the island.
And there's no ship that was
available except for the ships
in the traffic lane, the
shipping lanes, or the US
military ships that were already
there or near the island,
but still they were hours away.
The flight time from Perth
to the Kerguelen Islands
was such that no
plane could fly there
without refueling,
air refueling.
They could get there but
they could never go back.
And there was no runway
at Kerguelen Island.
So all ships would come
and dock in a harbor
and then small shuttle
boats would take him
in to shore because
the port wasn't
deep enough for big ships.
And since there was no runway,
the only planes that could land
would be planes that
could land on the water.
>>EMERY: So they're
out there all alone,
a little bit of communication,
but really no one's
going to come.
>>DOTY: Exactly.
And the US military
ships were hours away.
And I think some--
I think the admiral told
me about 20 hours away.
So eventually, the
USS Hammerhead,
which was a submarine, arrived.
Now, the name of the ship
initially in this report
was classified because it was
on a classified operation,
but it's been identified now.
It arrived on scene
but it's a submarine,
it's not a surface ship,
so it couldn't really
help too much there.
But at the time the USS
Hammerhead got there,
this object was under the water,
somewhere under the water.
So they began
tracking this object
moving around under the water.
>>EMERY: In the bay.
>>DOTY: In the bay
or around the island.
And so they tracked it
for a number of hours.
And by that time, a surface
ship, a USS surface ship,
arrived on scene along with an
Australian Coast Guard cutter.
The Australian
Coast Guard cutter
just had small arms
on board and rescue
helicopter, a helicopter
that could shuttle people
back and forth.
So as the submarine, USS
submarine was following this,
it disappeared.
So for hours, they
couldn't find it.
Eventually, they got the
message from the USS destroyer
that this object had
landed on the island.
Now, it's on the island
near the settlement
where the scientists and
military personnel were.
Now, there are some
remote locations
that scientists spend some time
at but there's only really one
port.
And the port has all the
facilities to maintain
the people that are there.
>>EMERY: So it was
the destroyer that
actually found where it went,
not the tracking station
or Pine Gap.
>>DOTY: Right.
It had landed in the island
at a somewhat remote area.
And the destroyer was trying
to communicate with the island.
And apparently,
according to the admiral,
there was a communications
problem between radio
frequencies and so forth.
But when they
finally managed it,
they'd be able to
communicate with the Navy,
and the Navy communicate
with the island,
then the scientists in the
island say this thing is here
and there's two
entities, humanoids
that are out of the craft.
And we don't know what to do.
Now, the USS destroyer
was miles away.
They did have the ability to
aboard the island or board
a ship.
They had trained US Marines
on board, but it was--
they were still--
>>EMERY: Still too far away.
>>DOTY: --some distance away.
The submarine was
still in the harbor
but the submarine
couldn't do anything.
So the scientists on
the islands attempt
to communicate with
these humanoids.
Two of the scientists
approached the humanoids
and tried to communicate.
They spoke French,
German, and English.
And these humanoids didn't
seem to understand anything.
They just stood there in front
of him, not making any sounds
or doing anything other
than looking at each other.
So eventually, one
of the scientists
who was from Denmark, a Danish
scientist and oceanographer,
came over and then tried to do
telepathy with the humanoids.
That somewhat worked
because he was saying,
I'm getting messages from him.
They're saying they
want something from us.
They kept asking for something.
But I don't understand
what they're asking me for.
They're asking for
me for a word, a word
that I don't understand.
And eventually, the
scientists got so upset
the other scientists had
to come and take him away.
So still, nobody knows what
these two humanoids wanted.
>>EMERY: And they're
just standing there.
>>DOTY: They're
Eventually, they went
back into their craft
and the craft took off.
And it flew out
towards the ocean.
The USS destroyer went after
it, saw it land in the water,
went after it, trying
to identify it.
In the meantime, there
was two Mirage jets
that made it over to this area.
They had to dispatch
a refueling vehicle
from an airbase
inside Australia,
but they were able to come on
station or come on the scene.
As the two Mirage jets were
flying over this flying saucer,
which was on the
surface of the ocean,
it was moving on top, not under.
>>EMERY: But at a high speed
because the destroyer is
following it.
>>DOTY: Right, it wasn't
going at a high speed.
It was just traveling
slowly according
to the admiral along the ocean
in a northerly direction.
As a Mirage jets strafed it
or came down close to it,
a beam of light hit
one of the Mirage jets.
It disabled it enough where
the pilot was able to eject,
but the Mirage jet crashed.
At that point, the USS destroyer
considered that the hostile act
and fired on the surface vessel
which was the flying saucer.
They hit it with a number
of different ordnance
and munitions and I don't
know the exact type.
The admiral didn't go
into details on it.
But anyway, the destroyer was
able to hit it and it sank.
Now, in this particular
area, there's
shelves of the ocean,
some that go down 600 feet
and some that go
down 11,000 feet.
And this craft ended up
going all the way down
to the 11,000 feet.
Now, but it was
moving really slowly
so USS Hammerhead was
able to follow it,
got up really close to
it, and was reporting back
that the flying saucer
had been heavily damaged
and is taking on
water and is sinking.
But the USS
Hammerhead could only
go down to a certain depth.
Submarines had a limit.
>>EMERY: How large
is this craft?
>>DOTY: This craft is about
a football-sized craft.
Size of a football field size.
So then they couldn't
do anything but--
the USS Hammerhead couldn't
do anything but leave
and resurface and stayed
next to the destroyer.
So now, they don't
know what to do.
They sank it, it's down at the
bottom of the ocean, the Navy
protected.
In the meantime, they went--
the US Navy and the
Australian Coast Guard ship
launched a helicopter to
rescue the French, the pilot.
They got him out of the water.
He was unhurt but the
plane was totaled.
>>EMERY: You mentioned their
high technology, even able
to stop bullets at some points.
Why do you think they
were not able to get out
of this situation of being
bombarded by the Navy ships?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
I don't-- we can't answer it.
I can't answer, the admiral
never did answer it.
He just thought that
maybe their force field,
and that's the only thing
we can compare a protection
device around the craft,
would be a force field.
Maybe their force
field wasn't working.
Maybe the craft was
already damaged somehow
and they weren't able
to defend themselves.
And maybe they
thought this aircraft,
this Mirage III Australian
plane was going to harm them.
Another thing the admiral
said is, who's next?
They shot down a plane.
Is one of the ships next?
We can't take that chance so
we had to defend ourselves
and we were able to sink it.
We were able to damage it.
How we did that, I don't know.
Maybe their force field was
down or their protection system
was down.
Now, they have a dilemma.
What are they going to do?
So messages, as admiral
told me, flash messages,
meaning top secret,
urgent messages
was going from the
ships to Pearl Harbor
back and forth, back and
forth, back and forth.
And the admiral was in a
position at Pearl Harbor
to read these messages that
were coming back and forth.
>>EMERY: What were they saying?
>>DOTY: And urgent messages
saying, what do we do?
We just shot down an
extraterrestrial craft.
What do we do?
How are we going to handle that?
And what their main
concern was retaliation.
Now, Pine Gap had told them that
there were between 30 and 50--
they couldn't count all of
them, but there were at least 30
and 50 UFOs that they
spotted the day before
or a day and a half before that
was flying up from Antarctica.
So now, they're figuring,
we just shot down
or we just sunk a UFO.
Did they send out a message or
an urgent mayday themselves?
And now, are we going to
be attacked by other UFOs?
And this was their
primary concern.
So what the Navy did was they
sent all the air, all the ships
in that area, that
they could get there
in a reasonable amount of
time according to the admiral,
down there, including
the USS Kitty
Hawk which was an aircraft
carrier with airplanes
on board.
So eventually, over a
period of 14 to 15 hours,
there was 6 or 7 ships
that got to the scene.
And they were setting
up just in case
they were going to have
to do battle with the ETs.
Only one came back.
One came over and flew
around, never made,
according to admiral,
never made any hostile acts
or didn't shoot at any
of these surface ships.
But it stayed in the area
for a long time period,
flying really low over
the different ships.
When the Kitty Hawk got
there, which had aircrafts,
the Kitty Hawk
launched two aircrafts.
And I believe they were A-4s.
>>EMERY: A-4 Phantoms, right.
>>DOTY: A-4, and
anyways, they took off
and they trailed this UFO.
And it was almost as if the UFO
was letting them trail them.
It wasn't trying to outfly
them, got real close
to the two Navy
airplanes but never
showed any kind of hostilities.
But never tried to
fly away from them.
Eventually, the A-4s
had to go back and land
and there were other
planes that came up.
It was if there was--
at first, the captain of
the carrier group on board
the Kitty Hawk
thought that they're
trying to communicate with us.
That's why they're doing it.
>>EMERY: They're waiting, right.
>>DOTY: They're
waiting, and they're
trying to communicate with us.
So let's try to communicate.
So they were using all sorts of
hailing frequencies and radio
frequencies and everything
they could think of.
And they couldn't get
any contact with them.
And then they said, well, let's
try to do telepathy somehow.
So pilots were flying
around trying to mind-meld,
so to speak, with
this alien ship
and that wasn't working either.
But the alien craft is
staying in the exact same area
as if maybe guarding their
buddies who were down
at the bottom of the ocean.
>>EMERY: Now, we're days into
this, correct, at this point?
>>DOTY: Yeah, we're in about
96 hours into this now.
At the end of the third
day, another UFO came in.
And what this did was hit
the water and went down.
So we figured they're
going to try to rescue
their buddies down there.
This is what the admiral is
saying everybody consensus.
So we're going to move back.
We're going to move back
and let them do their thing.
We're not going to
interfere with anything.
But after a while, some time
period, hour or so, that vessel
the UFO came up and
flew away, and then
the other one then flew away.
So at this point, they
thought, well, OK, there's
nothing down there.
Maybe they rescued
their buddies.
We don't need to
be here anymore.
But the Navy of
Pearl Harbor sent
messages back saying, no,
no, no, no, we want that.
We want that craft.
We're going to send a
salvage team down there.
So over a period of
the next 15 days,
they stood around there, waited
there, brought other ships in,
and they brought a big
salvage ship in from,
I think, it was from Long Beach.
>>EMERY: And what
determined that, Rick,
what the United
States seems to be
in charge of this mission,
because Australia was there,
why did we take the precedence?
>>DOTY: I think we took
the precedence because we
had overwhelming odds here.
We had more ships there
than the Australians did.
I think that eventually,
the Australians got
some of their Navy ships there.
But one other country
that assisted us there
was a Japanese freighter.
It wasn't a Japanese
defense warship,
it was a Japanese freighter that
offered assistance not knowing
exactly what was going on there
other than the airplane had
crashed, they knew that
an airplane had crashed.
But the Japanese didn't know
anything other than that.
So they were there to help.
Hey, we're here.
We're a freighter.
Whatever you want.
And we just let them hang around
there but we were in charge.
So that somebody,
the powers that
be in the Pentagon
or Pearl Harbor
decided we wanted to
recover whatever's
down there, so we're going
to do a recovery operation.
So that's when the recovery
operation occurred.
Well, that didn't go too
well because, number one,
they couldn't find it.
They can't find it.
They knew it was damaged
but they can't find it.
They figured it might have
imploded, they don't know.
But almost a month into
this, we're in a month
into this, all of a sudden this
huge round capsule surfaces.
Right in the middle of all
these ships, in fact, almost
hitting the bulkhead
of the USS Kitty Hawk.
So they brought in
a ship with a crane
and brought this big object up.
It's a big ball.
>>EMERY: How big is the ball?
>>DOTY: A huge ball.
Probably a size of a semi-truck,
a commercial motor vehicle
truck.
And they put it on the
deck of the USS Kitty Hawk
with Marines guarding it.
They looked inside and saw two
extraterrestrial creatures.
Now, they figured, oh maybe
this was the rescue vessel
that might have came up
from this down craft that
was down there.
They didn't know what it was.
>>EMERY: Right, what is this?
>>DOTY: But they connected
it to the one that crashed.
Anyways, they don't
know what to do with it.
They can't-- they
couldn't open it.
They tried everything
possible, try to open it.
But they saw that these two
entities inside, these ETs
were alive.
They were moving.
They were breathing.
So they knew they
were all right.
>>EMERY: It was transparent?
>>DOTY: It was transparent.
They could see through it, yes.
So eventually, it opened.
And then-- and they
took these two--
>>EMERY: Did they
describe how it opened?
Was there--
>>DOTY: It just opened with some
water in it, the admiral said.
Apparently, they opened
it themselves from inside.
It opened, some
water came out of it,
but the two were in
seat-- were in seats
in some kind of escape,
maybe escape vessel.
That's what they figured.
And they were not in the
best of shape, so to speak.
Apparently, they figured that
their environmental systems
were failing.
So they had to figure out how
to keep these things alive.
So they tried all sorts
of methods to do it.
They were trying to figure
out what kind of air
they were breathing, and they
weren't breathing oxygen,
it was something else.
But anyway, the admiral couldn't
explain how they did this,
but they kept them alive.
They put them in an
infirmary under heavy guard
and they transported, they
went to Perth, Australia.
>>EMERY: And what
did they look like?
>>DOTY: They were Greys.
They were typical Greys,
the big eyes, no ears,
slits for mouth and nose.
They had just four fingers with
suction devices on each finger.
Their arms were a
little bit longer
proportionally
than a human body.
Their skin was changing colors.
The admiral says the doctors,
the Navy doctors had--
knew nothing about these things
so they couldn't obviously
treat them.
But they noticed that the skin
was getting darker and darker
and darker and darker.
And the doctors figured that
meant that they were probably
going to die.
They're losing their life form.
And they didn't know
what to do to help.
Well, as the ship
was going to Perth,
a UFO came within distance
of the USS Kitty Hawk.
Now, no ship can ever
approach an aircraft carrier
as an admiral told me.
They have destroyers and
planes that will take off.
So they're not going to let
anything close to that aircraft
carrier, but this
thing somehow did.
And it ended up
landing on the deck.
Now, they're in a
dilemma, what are we going
to do, now that we got these?
So the captain says, let's just
turn these things over to them.
But that didn't happen.
Apparently, a new or some
kind of environmental controls
was left on the deck
and this UFO took off.
So the Navy personnel took this
stuff down to these two ETs
and put them in the room and
they knew what to do with them.
And they came and their
skin started lighting up.
So they basically saved them.
Why did they do this?
This is-- I asked the
admiral over and over again,
this doesn't make
any sense to me.
Why didn't they just
take their buddies back?
Why did they give
them the light--
maybe they wanted
them to stay with us?
Was that what happened?
And admiral says,
that's the consensus,
is that they didn't
want them maybe.
Here's-- you can keep them alive
but we don't want them anymore.
Doesn't make any sense.
But they got back to Perth.
They were all right.
They seemed to be surviving.
A C-141 Air Force plane
flew in from a base,
probably Hawaii, Hickam, landed.
They had these containers that
they placed these ETFs into.
Put them on board this
C-141 and flew away.
And I said, OK, that's
a great story, admiral,
but there's got
to be more to it.
I mean, you've got
to-- did you ever
recover that other
spacecraft that crashed?
Where did the ETs go?
>>EMERY: They say that
they ever communicated?
>>DOTY: Those are all the
questions I asked him.
And he said, they
ended up in Area 51.
I said, so they took
them in 1981 to Area 51?
Yes.
And what did they do with them?
He said, I don't know.
I had no connections
with the operation
after they got to Area 51.
The Air Force took over.
We recovered, the United
States Navy we recovered,
we did our recovery
operations, and the Air Force
took over from that point on.
We don't know what
happened to them.
We don't know if
they're still there
or whether they were
returned to their kind
and flew back to their
planet or what happened.
I said, well, what happened to
the recovery of the craft that
crashed?
He said, three years
later we recovered it.
A foreign salvage
company, I believe
it was a Japanese because
they're the best in salvage
operations back in
those days in the '80s,
they came in and
managed to bring it up.
And it was a
heavily damaged UFO.
Eventually, it got
to probably Area 51
but I don't know where
it went from there.
And I mean, I asked the admiral
many questions as did others
in the room that was
talking, Wendelle
Stevens and some others,
but the only information
that the admiral had was
what I just told you.
>>EMERY: And why do
you think it took place
in such an isolated location?
>>DOTY: That's a good question.
Why were they interested
in Kerguelen Island?
Maybe there's
something down there.
Maybe there's a base down there.
Maybe it's close
enough to Antarctica.
>>EMERY: Yeah, it's a
relation with Antarctica
because that's where they
all came out of, you said.
>>DOTY: Yeah, they all
came from Pine Gap on radar
from Antarctica.
So the next big
question is, is there
an alien base for the Greys
somewhere around Antarctica,
under it, deep under it.
Close to it?
Do we know about it?
He said, of course, me being
the former intelligence
officer said, you probably
know more about that than I do.
And I don't.
I don't know much
about Antarctica.
I mean, I know about the weapons
that were tested down there,
Zeus and Spartan, and some
other things about Antarctica
and the bases that were
established down there.
And a missing submarine
that occurred down there.
But I don't know
anything other than that.
There's a Navy base down there.
I would think an admiral
in the United States Navy
would know more than I do.
And we joked back
and forth about that.
But he didn't know anything more
or he wouldn't tell anything
more.
>>EMERY: Well, they took
the specimens to Area 51.
And two years
before that, the sub
that was missing for 20 years
actually showed up near there.
Is there some sort of exchange
program going on here, Rick?
>>DOTY: You know,
that's what I think.
We lost-- the United
States Navy lost 69 men
aboard that submarine
that disappeared
in 1959 around Antarctica.
But the submarine
appeared in 1979
near Heard Island which is
some 400 or 500 miles south
of Kerguelen Island.
There's too much
going on here that
could connect the two without
actually connecting them.
There's some kind of
commonality between, maybe
between the submarine that
disappeared and the one--
and then they found it,
and then this crash.
Was there an exchange program?
They have 69 of our people
maybe someplace on their planet
or on their base--
under the ocean
or wherever it is.
And now they gave
us two of theirs.
Maybe there is.
Maybe we just couldn't
understand it.
Maybe they were trying
to communicate with us
with that message,
and listen, you
can have these two, let them
help you develop technology
or whatever, I mean,
that they could assist us
in our society or our
advancement of research
into reverse engineering
of their craft.
I mean, maybe these
things are happening
and we just didn't have
the ability to communicate.
We're the ants.
They're the humans, so to speak.
We don't understand them
and they don't understand us
but they're more
advanced than we are.
Obviously, coming from
wherever they're coming from
and doing what they're
doing on Earth.
They can defy gravity,
they can defy the ocean.
They can defy water.
The resistance inside water.
I mean, resistance
is big inside water.
Our submarines can't travel at
lightning speed under the ocean
but their crafts can.
How do they do that?
Maybe they will help us.
Maybe these two entities
that came up out
of the ocean that we
have now in our custody,
and now are going to Area 51 or
are now at Area 51 maybe they
can answer all these
questions for us.
>>EMERY: Well, Rick, thank
you and thank the admiral
for such a fascinating story.
The Intel on this, I
think, a lot of our viewers
were really going to absorb.
So thank you for
being on the show.
>>DOTY: It's my pleasure, Emery.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is Cosmic Disclosure.
Until next time.
[AUDIO LOGO]